# chat-website-with-node-js
The purpose of this website is to provide book enthusiasts with a forum where they can learn about new released books and engage in book-related conversations with others who shares common interests. News and reviews of recently released books can be found on this website. There is also a chat application where people can select a room and gather there to share their thoughts on a book.
How to navigate:
To access this website, go to codio terminal, write cd practical2, then cd src, lastly, node index.js. Then Go to index.html and click Box url from codio menu. Change the port number to 5000 from 8080, the site will then live.
There’s four pages in this site. Landing page contains an animated headline of what this site is about, while the bottom of the page includes information on new books. The site's content is further described on the "about" page, along with a very brief explanation of how it was created. Additionally, there is a sample contact page where you may reach the author. In chat page, a box will appear where the user must put their name and the room they wish to go. Successfully entering would show a chat page where in the left corner, there is a list of active users and in the right corner, there is a box where user can type their message and send their location if they wish to. There’ll be text to show if anyone joins or leave the chat.
Approach of developing:
Landing, About and Contact page are purely made from HTML5 and CSS. The chat application is written in JavaScript and uses HTML5 and Mustache.js templates to render the chat messages and user room information on the frontend. To interact with the browser's DOM and the Geolocation API, Client-side uses socket.io library for real-time communication between the client and server, using websockets. This opens a socket connection between the client and the server. The socket object is used to send and receive messages between the client and server.
Events are registered to handle incoming messages from the server, such as socket.on("message", (msg) => { ... }), which listens for a message event and executes a callback function that renders the message in the client's DOM.
Outgoing messages are sent to the server using methods like socket.emit("sendMessage", msg, (error) => { ... }), which emits a sendMessage event to the server with a message payload and an optional callback function to handle any errors that may occur.
Similarly, the location is sent to the server using socket.emit("sendLocation", { ... }, () => { ... }) when the user clicks on the "Send Location" button.
Limitations and Scope of development:
There are several functionalities missing due to time constraints. Further development will include a separate blog page with all the review. From there, most recent review will display in home page as featured review. A database needs to be implemented for that. Then the data can be fetched using JSON and displayed in home page. There will be a list of chat rooms with description for user to choose from. Chat rooms can be categorized as book type wise or area wise. Also implement user login to provide a more personalized experience such as book read list, book review preference etc. The contact form should be functional as well. The overall look and feel of the website need to be matched.